2/26/2023

Tambopata National Reserve, Peru
Those brave enough to step out over this suspension bridge will be treated to a macaw's-eye view of the Amazon rainforest, on which the survival of life on Earth depends. The vast Amazon biome, which spans 2.6 million square miles—an area twice the size of India—stores enormous amounts of carbon and supports approximately 10% of all known animal and plant species on Earth.

The Amazon River discharges more water than any other river on Earth, and almost 20% of all water that flows into the ocean first travels through the Amazon River basin. While almost two-thirds of the Amazon River basin lies in Brazil, it stretches across seven other countries, from the Andes Mountains to the Atlantic Ocean. This section of canopy is in Peru's Tambopata National Reserve, home to giant harpy eagles, macaws, jaguars, capybaras, sloths, and giant otters.

The world's largest river basin is drained by the _____
AMississippi River
BAmazon River
CYellow River

Amazon River 68% got this right
The Amazon River basin, the area drained by the Amazon River and its tributaries, covers more than 2,000,000 square miles in South America. It discharges 20% of all the fresh water carried to the world's oceans.

The Amazon basin is the part of South America drained by the Amazon River and its tributaries. The Amazon drainage basin covers an area of about 6,300,000 km2 (2,400,000 sq mi), or about 35.5 percent of the South American continent. It is located in the countries of Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Peru, Suriname, and Venezuela.[1]

Most of the basin is covered by the Amazon rainforest, also known as Amazonia. With a 5.5 million km2 (2.1 million sq mi) area of dense tropical forest, this is the largest rainforest in the world.  

Geography
The Amazon River begins in the Andes Mountains at the west of the basin with its main tributary the Marañón River and Apurimac River in Peru. The highest point in the watershed of the Amazon is the second biggest peak of Yerupajá at 6,635 metres (21,768 ft).

With a length of about 6,400 km (4,000 mi) before it drains into the Atlantic Ocean, it is one of the two longest rivers in the world. A team of scientists has claimed that the Amazon is longer than the Nile,[2] but debate about its exact length continues.[3]

The Amazon system transports the largest volume of water of any river system, accounting for about 20% of the total water carried to the oceans by rivers. Some of the Amazon rainforests are deforested because of an increase in cattle ranches and soybean fields. The Amazon basin formerly flowed west to the Pacific Ocean until the Andes formed, causing the basin to flow eastward towards the Atlantic Ocean.[4]

Politically the basin is divided into Peruvian Amazonia, Amazônia Legal of Brazil, the Amazon natural region of Colombia, Amazonas (Venezuelan state), and parts of Bolivia and Ecuador.