3/27/2023

Who is credited with popularizing New York City's nickname 'The Big Apple'?
AFrank Sinatra
BJohn J. Fitz Gerald
CFiorello La Guardia

New York City skyline
New York City's skyline is instantly recognizable, even when half-covered in fog. Eight of the United States' 10 tallest buildings reside there, all in the borough of Manhattan. One of New York City's most famous landmarks, the Empire State Building, was the world's tallest building for 41 years.

John J. Fitz Gerald 52% got this right
'The Big Apple,' arguably New York City's most common nickname, was popularized in the 1920s by sportswriter John J. Fitz Gerald.

When it was completed in 1931, it towered over New York City's skyline, the first building in the world to be more than 100 stories tall. But in the decades since, it has been joined by scores of other skyscrapers and is now the Big Apple's seventh-tallest building. While it may have been overtaken by some of its younger neighbors, the Empire State Building remains one of the most iconic features of New York's skyline, if you can see it through the fog.

New York, often called New York City[a] or NYC, is the most populous city in the United States. With a 2020 population of 8,804,190 distributed over 300.46 square miles (778.2 km2), New York City is the most densely populated major city in the United States and more than twice as populous as Los Angeles, the nation's second-largest city. New York City is located at the southern tip of New York State. It constitutes the geographical and demographic center of both the Northeast megalopolis and the New York metropolitan area, the largest metropolitan area in the U.S. by both population and urban area. With over 20.1 million people in its metropolitan statistical area and 23.5 million in its combined statistical area as of 2020, New York is one of the world's most populous megacities, and over 58 million people live within 250 mi (400 km) of the city.[10] New York City is a global cultural, financial, entertainment, and media center with a significant influence on commerce, health care and life sciences,[11] research, technology, education, politics, tourism, dining, art, fashion, and sports. Home to the headquarters of the United Nations, New York is an important center for international diplomacy,[12][13] and is sometimes described as the capital of the world.[14][15]
