
Tangle Falls
JASPER NATIONAL PARK, ALBERTA, CANADA
North America >> Canada >> Alberta >> Jasper National Park, Jasper Park Municipal District

Tangle Falls was a delicate multi-tiered cascade that we just happened to see following a rather unusual snowstorm (unusual in that it was still technically Summer when it happened).

That circumstance made the waterfall kind of blend in with the rest of the snowy-white trees surrounding it.

It was only because we were actively looking for it that we managed to stop for it with a little help from our GPS.

Once that happened, the lemmings effect took over as probably at least a half-dozen cars plus a tour bus decided to pull over and check it out while we were here.

This was one of the lighter flowing waterfalls we encountered during our September 2010 trip.

If I had to guess, we were fortunate to have even seen Tangle Falls flow as well as it did because we were told that Summmer was unusually wet in 2010.

So the precipitation from the snow storm that came through further helped to raise the water table in its drainage supplying the falls.

Otherwise, it was quite possible that this waterfall might’ve been merely a trickle in a drier year.

In any case, Tangle Falls was pretty much a roadside waterfall so it was easy to get a tripod out and have fun taking long exposure photographs or self portraits with a timer.

However, the uppermost tier of the falls did seem segmented and wide as well as somewhat blocked by trees growing in front of them.

Thus, it was difficult to get a very satisfying “clean” view of the falls’ entirety.

Yet despite its roadside convenience, it was still pretty easy to miss as we hadn’t even noticed it when we headed north to Jasper three days prior (before the snow storm).

It was only when we were going slow heading southbound while listening to our GPS (thanks to a waypoint I established before the trip) did we finally find the correct pullout.

Authorities
Tangle Falls resides in Jasper National Park between Jasper and Lake Louise in the province of Alberta, Canada. It is administered by Parks Canada. For information or inquiries as well as current conditions, visit their website.

