12/15/2022

Borovets ski resort in Bulgaria
This frosty scene shows Borovets, Bulgaria's oldest winter resort, established in 1896. It's a budget-friendly skiing alternative to the more expensive resorts in the Alps, especially for beginners and those looking for fun on the slopes without shelling out the big bucks.

The resort area was once used by Bulgarian royalty as hunting grounds. Borovets covers the foothills and ridge-spine of Musala Peak, the highest mountain in Bulgaria and the Balkans, in the eastern Rila Mountains, only a few dozen miles south of the national capital, Sofia

Rila
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Rila Mountains
Bulgarian: Рила
Страшното езеро.jpg
Strashnoto ezero (The Dreadful Lake)
Highest point
Peak	Musala
Elevation	2,925 m (9,596 ft)
Coordinates	42°06′00″N 23°33′00″ECoordinates: 42°06′00″N 23°33′00″E
Dimensions
Length	75 km (47 mi) west-east
Width	50 km (31 mi) north-south
Area	2,629 km2 (1,015 sq mi)
Geography
Bulgaria geographic map Rila bg.svg
Country	Bulgaria
Geology
Type of rock	granite, gneiss, quartz
Rila (Bulgarian: Рила, pronounced [ˈriɫɐ]) is the highest mountain range of Bulgaria, the Balkan Peninsula and Southeast Europe. It is situated in southwestern Bulgaria and forms part of the Rila–Rhodope Massif. The highest summit is Musala at an elevation of 2,925 m which makes Rila the sixth highest mountain range in Europe after the Caucasus, the Alps, Sierra Nevada, the Pyrenees and Mount Etna, and the highest one between the Alps and the Caucasus. It spans a territory of 2,629 km2 with an average elevation of 1487 m. The mountain is believed to have been named after the river of the same name, which comes from the Old Bulgarian verb "рыти" meaning "to grub".[1][2]

Rila has abundant water resources. Some of the Balkans' longest and deepest rivers originate from Rila, including the Maritsa, Iskar and Mesta rivers. Bulgaria's main water divide separating the Black Sea and the Aegean Sea drainage systems follows the main ridge of Rila. The mountain range is dotted with almost 200 glacial lakes such as the renowned Seven Rila Lakes, and is rich in hot springs in the fault areas at the foothills, including the hottest spring in South-eastern Europe in Sapareva Banya.

The mountain range has varied flora and fauna with a number of endemic and relict species and some of the best preserved forests in the country. The biodiversity and the pristine landscapes are protected by Rila National Park which covers much of the mountain; the rest lies within Rila Monastery Nature Park. In addition, there are five nature reserves: Parangalitsa, Central Rila Reserve, Rila Monastery Forest, Ibar and Skakavitsa.

The most recognisable landmark of the mountain range is the Rila Monastery, Bulgaria's largest and most important monastery, founded in the 10th century by Saint John of Rila. Due to its outstanding cultural and spiritual value it was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983. Rila is also a popular destination for hiking, winter sports and spa tourism, hosting the nation's oldest ski resort Borovets, as well as numerous hiking trails. Some of the most important hydro power stations in Bulgaria are situated in the eastern part of the mountain range.

Quiz
The Borovets resort is in which mountain range?

A	Alps
B	Rila
C	Andes

Your answer B
Rila 52% got this right
Borovets is located in the Rila Mountains, the highest mountain range in Bulgaria and in the Balkan Peninsula, and one of the highest ranges in Europe.

