12/18/2022

South Beach in Miami Beach, Florida
The seaside resort of Miami Beach is perhaps best captured here by the surf at South Beach, its most famous neighborhood. Cosmopolitan Miami Beach is perpetually fixed inside the lens of the world as a playground for the wealthy, glamorous, and aesthetically advantaged set. You're likely to hear many languages spoken while strolling the sidewalks of Miami Beach. It's home to the music academy known as the New World Symphony, and host to the visual arts festival, Art Basel. Miami Beach also boasts the world's largest array of preserved Art Deco structures. It's a favorite haunt of celebrities—none of whom can outshine the real star, this beach of endless sand

Quiz

Famous for its beach, this town is also known for having the largest collection of Art Deco structures in the world. Where are we?
A: St. Augustine
B: St. Petersburg
C: Miami Beach

Your answer  C
Miami Beach 55% got this right
Miami Beach's Art Deco Historic District includes hundreds of mostly hotels and apartments built between 1923 and 1943. Some of the best examples can be found on Ocean Drive, which faces the beach.

Miami Beach is a coastal resort city in Miami-Dade County, Florida. It was incorporated on March 26, 1915.[5] The municipality is located on natural and man-made barrier islands between the Atlantic Ocean and Biscayne Bay, the latter of which separates the Beach from the mainland city of Miami. The neighborhood of South Beach, comprising the southernmost 2.5 sq mi (6.5 km2) of Miami Beach, along with Downtown Miami and the PortMiami, collectively form the commercial center of South Florida.[6] Miami Beach's population is 82,890 according to the 2020 census.[7] Miami Beach is the 26th largest city in Florida based on official 2019 estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau.[8] It has been one of America's pre-eminent beach resorts since the early 20th century.

In 1979, Miami Beach's Art Deco Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The Art Deco District is the largest collection of Art Deco architecture in the world[9] and comprises hundreds of hotels, apartments and other structures erected between 1923 and 1943. Mediterranean, Streamline Moderne and Art Deco are all represented in the District.

The Historic District is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean on the East, Lenox Court on the West, 6th Street on the South and Dade Boulevard along the Collins Canal to the North. The movement to preserve the Art Deco District's architectural heritage was led by former interior designer Barbara Baer Capitman, who now has a street in the District named in her honor.

Miami Beach is the city in the United States most immediately threatened by climate-driven sea-level rise and flooding. Extensive, expensive, and sometimes controversial efforts are underway to address the problem so far as possible.