12/19/2022

Northern cardinal in winterberry bush
This scarlet winterberry shrub is the perfect hiding place for the northern cardinal. What better spot for singing in the winter holidays? Winterberry is a deciduous holly that's native to North America and can be a modest shrub or a tree reaching up to 15 feet. The yellow and green flower clusters that bloom in spring give way to bright red berries in winter.

Cardinals winter in the Midwest and the Eastern US, brightening the dreary winter months with flashes of bold scarlet. It's only the male cardinal that sports the crimson plumage. Female cardinals are mostly light brown, with a bit of red. Some people believe sighting a cardinal is good luck or a message of support from a lost loved one.

Quiz
Which of these inspired the name of the northern cardinal?
A: The Latin word 'cardinalis'
B: Actor Luis Cardinale
C: Clerical vestments

Clerical vestments 45% got this right  C
Most Catholic cardinals wear robes and hats of a bright scarlet, like the feathers of the male northern cardinal.

The northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) is a bird in the genus Cardinalis; it is also known colloquially as the redbird, common cardinal, red cardinal, or just cardinal (which was its name prior to 1985). It can be found in southeastern Canada, through the eastern United States from Maine to Minnesota to Texas, New Mexico, southern Arizona, southern California, and south through Mexico, Belize, and Guatemala. It is also an introduced species in a few locations such as Bermuda and Hawaii. Its habitat includes woodlands, gardens, shrublands, and wetlands.

The northern cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21–23 cm (8.3–9.1 in). It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the face which is black in the male and gray in the female. The male is a vibrant red, while the female is a reddish olive color. The northern cardinal is mainly granivorous, but also feeds on insects and fruit. The male behaves territorially, marking out his territory with song. During courtship, the male feeds seed to the female beak-to-beak. A clutch of three to four eggs is laid, and two to four clutches are produced each year. It was once prized as a pet, but its sale as a cage bird was banned in the United States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918.

