12/20/2022

Christmas market at Belvedere Palace in Vienna
Christmas markets win the holiday trifecta: You can buy interesting, often handcrafted gifts, they are set in picturesque, romantic towns and villages in Europe, and they tempt you with mulled wine and local delicacies. What's not to like? Christmas markets, or 'Weihnachtsmärkt,' are one of Europe's oldest Advent events.

Our photo shows Austria's Belvedere Christmas market from across the Danube River, outside Upper Belvedere, one of two palaces on the property. If you visit a Christmas market, make the time to stroll, taking in all the sights and smells of the season. In Vienna, the architecturally impressive city goes all out for the holidays, with lights, decorations, and music, and the Belvedere Palace is a suitably dramatic backdrop

Quiz

Bing homepage quiz
We're at Vienna's palace complex known as Belvedere. What's going on outside the palace during the holidays?
A: A Christmas market
B: Euro Santa Con
C: A wassail festival

A Christmas market 92% got this right  A
Christmas markets are one of the oldest Advent traditions in Europe. Visitors can shop for gifts, which are often handcrafted, eat local delicacies, and take in the old-fashioned holiday cheer.

A Christmas market, also known as Christkindlmarkt (literally: Christ Child Market, but the term "Christkind" usually refers to an angel-like "spirit of Christmas" rather than literally the Christ Child), Christkindlesmarkt, Christkindlmarket, Christkindlimarkt, and Weihnachtsmarkt, is a street market associated with the celebration of Christmas during the four weeks of Advent.[1] These markets originated in Germany, but are now held in many countries.[2] Christmas markets date to the Late Middle Ages in the German-speaking part of Europe and in many parts of the former Holy Roman Empire that included many eastern regions of France.[2] They became a popular Advent custom during the Reformation era.[1]

Dresden's Striezelmarkt was first held in 1434 and one of the first true Christmas markets;[3] earlier markets of the season were "December markets".[3][4] Early mentions of these "December markets" can be found in Vienna (1298),[5] Munich (1310),[3] Bautzen (1384),[6] and Frankfurt (1393).[7]

In many towns in Germany, Switzerland, and Austria, Advent is usually ushered in with the opening of the Christmas market or "Weihnachtsmarkt". In southern Germany, Switzerland and Austria, it is called a "Christkind(e)l(s)(i)markt" (German language, literally meaning "Christ child market"). Traditionally held in the town square, the market offers food, drinks and seasonal items for sale from open-air stalls, accompanied by traditional singing and dancing. On opening night at the Christkindlesmarkt in Nuremberg, and in some other towns, onlookers welcome the "Christkind" (originally boy Jesus, but often depicted as an angel-like girl), acted by a local child.