12/22/2022

Galeries Lafayette, Paris
Surely one of the grandest stores found in any city is the Galeries Lafayette in Paris. It's not just a place to shop but a destination as popular as any in the City of Light. At a time when department stores are fading and the entire retail industry is shifting, the Galeries Lafayette holds fast. It has survived financial crises, wars, and now the internet, remaining a celebrated part of life in Paris. Like Macy's or Rockefeller Center in New York, the Galeries Lafayette is synonymous with the holidays. A giant fir is decorated every holiday season under the store's signature stained glass dome—a ritual of Christmas cheer that Parisians have embraced for generations

This place is an institution in its city and a fixture during the Christmas season. Where are we?
A: Marienplatz, Munich
B: Wenceslas Square, Prague
C: Galeries Lafayette, Paris

Galeries Lafayette, Paris 89% got this right C:
The Galeries Lafayette is more than a high-end department store in Paris. It's a part of the city's history and social fabric and a gathering place during Christmas, when a giant tree is decorated under a stained glass dome that is the structure's trademark feature.

Lafayette Department Store, officially known as Galeries Lafayette Haussmann (French: Galeries Lafayette Haussmann), is a French department store chainGaleries LafayetteThe main store is located at 40 Boulevard Haussmann in Paris, next to the Paris Opera. The 70,000-square-meter fashion flagship store offers customers a choice from mass brands to the most high-end luxury brands. In addition, its Art Nouveau architecture and rooftop overlooking the panorama of Paris make it one of the most popular tourist attractions in Paris.

History
Origins of the mall
In 1893, French businessman Theoffel Budd and his cousin Alphonse Kahn opened a 70-square-meter department store on the corner of rue Lafayette and rue de Sainte-en-Tain in Paris,[1] specializing in novel and fashionable gifts.

The two brothers initially invested with a somewhat gambling mentality, but the excellent location in the heart of Paris, close to the Paris Opera, the Avenue Glen and the Gare Saint-Lazare, soon attracted many office workers and the bourgeoisie, brought considerable traffic to the store, and doomed the success of the store.

In 1896, Bard bought the entire building at 1 Lafayette Road, and continued to expand the mall in 1903. 38, 40 and 42 Boulevard Osman, as well as 15 Rue de Sausé-Entin, were also incorporated by Galeries Lafayette. In addition, he commissioned the famous architect George Cersdown and his apprentice Ferdinand Channon to plan and renovate the Ottoman Avenue.

Architectural history
This renovation was completed in 1907. However, it was not until 1912, when George Sedan's apprentice, Ferdinand Channon, built the famous dome that the whole building finally took a whole new dimension.

The 43-meter-high dome is a classic symbol of Galeries Lafayette with its neo-Byzantine stained glass windows designed by master glassmaker Jacques Gruber. At the opening ceremony in October 1912, the flagship store was officially unveiled in Paris[2].

Not only that, Ferdinand Channon also selected some artists from the Nancy Art School, which led the French Art Nouveau movement, to participate in the decoration project of Galeries Lafayette. It is worth mentioning that not only the iron decoration on the balcony was created by the designer Louis Majorelle, but even the escalator bars were inspired by the Paris Opera[3].