12/23/2022

Gentoo penguins in Antarctica
For the uninitiated, the origins of the made-up holiday Festivus can be traced back to an episode of the hit '90s show, 'Seinfeld.' Based on the real family tradition of one of the show's writers, Festivus has taken on a life of its own in the real world and provides fans with a fun, tongue-in-cheek way to celebrate the holiday season while ignoring its pressures and commercialism.

And with today's photo, it appears these Gentoo penguins in Antarctica are well aware of Festivus, as they seem to be engaging in one of the holiday's main traditions—the 'Airing of Grievances.' As far as Gentoos go, it's not uncommon for them to have plenty of grievances to air. Whether excommunication for infidelity, or jealousy of their neighbor's nesting stones, Gentoos can be salty. Maybe that's to be expected, though, as their diets are so loaded with the stuff that they literally leak highly concentrated saline from their beaks

Which Festivus tradition do these Gentoo penguins appear to be participating in?
A: Feats of strength
B: Festivus caroling
C: Airing of grievances

The gentoo penguin (/ˈdʒɛntuː/ JEN-too) (Pygoscelis papua) is a penguin species (or possibly a species complex) in the genus Pygoscelis, most closely related to the Adélie penguin (P. adeliae) and the chinstrap penguin (P. antarcticus). The earliest scientific description was made in 1781 by Johann Reinhold Forster with a type locality in the Falkland Islands. The species calls in a variety of ways, but the most frequently heard is a loud trumpeting, which the bird emits with its head thrown back.[2]

Airing of grievances 77% got this right  C:
It appears that our penguin friend is airing some grievances into the Antarctic air. This tradition of Festivus is a way to tell other celebrants how they've disappointed you in the past year. And Gentoos are no strangers to having similar 'discussions.'

The application of "gentoo" to the penguin is unclear. Gentoo was an Anglo-Indian term to distinguish Hindus from Muslims. The English term may have originated from the Portuguese gentio ("pagan, gentile"). Some speculate that the white patch on the bird's head was thought to resemble a turban.[3]

It may also be a variation of another name for this bird, "Johnny penguin", with Johnny being Juanito in Spanish and sounds vaguely like gentoo.[4][5][6] The Johnny rook, a predator, is likely named after the Johnny penguin.[7]

The specific name papua is a misnomer; in the original description, Johann Reinhold Forster, a naturalist who had circumnavigated the world with Captain James Cook, mistakenly assumed that the species occurred in Papua (New Guinea), the closest gentoos actually being over 6000 km to the south (on Macquarie Island).[3] No penguins are found in New Guinea.[8] Others trace the error to a "possibly fraudulent claim" in 1776 by French naturalist Pierre Sonnerat, who also alleged a Papuan location for the king penguin despite never having been to the island himself.[9]