12/27/2022

Blue Lagoon spa, Grindavík, Iceland
Let's be frank here, the origin of today's beautiful picture is a pool of wastewater from a nearby geothermal plant. While that may not sound enticing, Iceland's Blue Lagoon is one of the country's most-visited attractions. The trick is to not get stuck on the 'waste' part of wastewater. The water here is clean, always hovers around 100° F, and is enriched with tons of silica—which is what makes it blue—and sulfur, thanks to the plant's processes. Those minerals, along with a little algae, are believed to combine into a highly beneficial tonic for skin and overall well-being

Today's destination is a famous spa in Grindavík, a small fishing town in which country?
A: Greenland
B: Iceland
C: Russia

Iceland 90% got this right  B:
Grindavík lies on the Southern Peninsula of Iceland. Most of the town's roughly 3,000 residents work in the fishing industry, and it's also home to the Icelandic Saltfish Museum, which details the importance of fishing to the country's economy.

History

Grindavík from the air in May 2011.
Landnáma or The Book of Settlements mentions that around 934, two Viking settlers, Molda-Gnúpur Hrólfsson [ˈmɔltaˌknuːpʏr ˈr̥oulsˌsɔːn] and Þórir Haustmyrkur Vígbjóðsson [ˈθourɪr ˈhœistˌmɪr̥kʏr ˈviɣˌpjouðsˌsɔːn], arrived in the Reykjanes area. Þórir settled in Selvogur and Krísuvík and Molda-Gnúpur in Grindavík.[1]

The sons of Moldar-Gnúpur established three settlements; Þórkötlustaðahverfi [ˈθourˌkʰœhtlʏˌstaːðaˌkʰvɛrvɪ], Járngerðarstaðarhverfi [ˈjau(r)tnˌcɛrðarˌstaːðarˌkʰvɛrvɪ] and Staðarhverfi [ˈstaːðarˌkʰvɛrvɪ]. The modern version of Grindavik is situated mainly in what was Járngerðarstaðarhverfi.

In June 1627 Grindavik was raided by Barbary Pirates in an event known as the Turkish Abductions. Twelve Icelanders and three Danes, along with two vessels were taken, and with captives taken from other Icelandic settlements, transported into slavery in Algiers.[1]

The origins of the municipality can be traced to Einar Einarsson's decision to move there to build and run a shop in 1897. During that time the population was only around 360. Fishing had for centuries been a crucial element in the survival of Grindavik's population, but fishing trips were often dangerous. Men were frequently lost at sea and the catch not always stable. However, when a safer access point to land was created at Hópið in 1939, fishing conditions changed dramatically. From 1950 serious development in the fishing industry had begun to take place. Grindavik was declared a municipality in 1974.


Grindavík harbor
Activities
A short distance to the north, there is the Blue Lagoon (Icelandic: Bláa Lónið), a geothermal spa using hot and mineralized waters from the nearby Svartsengi power station.

Ungmennafélag Grindavíkur (Umfg) is the town's sport club, and the town contains the Grindavíkurvöllur stadium.

The Leif the Lucky Bridge spans the Álfagjá rift valley [ˈaulvaˌcauː] that marks the boundary of the Eurasian and North American continental tectonic plates. It was built in 2002 and named in honor of Icelandic explorer Leif Erikson, who travelled from Europe to explore North America 500 years before Columbus.

The Icelandic Saltfish Museum in Grindavík opened in 2002. It displays the story of salt fish production and its importance for the Icelandic economy throughout the centuries in a specially designed building of 650 square metres (7,000 sq ft).[2]

Sports
Grindavik has a football team playing in the Icelandic league.

Notable residents
The Icelandic writer Guðbergur Bergsson was born here, and Kalli Bjarni, the first winner of the Icelandic version of Pop Idol, lives in the town. The Spanish publisher and writer Jaime Salinas Bonmatí, engaged to Guðbergur Bergsson, lived, died and is buried here. Icelandic footballer Alfreð Finnbogason was also born in Grindavík.

Ex-Leeds United footballer, Lee Sharpe, had a spell with Grindavík football club, at the end of his career, c.2006.