1/5/2023

Harbin International Ice and Snow Sculpture Festival, China
The Harbin International Ice and Snow Sculpture Festival, in China's Heilongjiang province, begins today with all the spectacle and fanfare you'd expect from the world's largest festival of its kind. Big, bold, and beautiful, the event features more than 2,000 ice sculptures made from 240,000 cubic yards of ice collected by nearly a thousand workers from the nearby Songhua River. Many of the sculptures are illuminated with colored lights, creating a vibrant, glowing world of ice. It's estimated the colorful sights attract more than 18 million visitors each year. The event, which runs through late February, also features alpine skiing, cold water swimming in the aforementioned Songhua, as well as a festive ice lantern show

Last year's Harbin Ice Festival featured Bing Dwen Dwen and Shuey Rhon Rhon. Who are they?
A: Olympic mascots from the 2022 Games
B: Popular Chinese singers
C: Famous Chinese actors

Olympic mascots from the 2022 Games 62% got this right
Bing Dwen Dwen is a giant panda, and Shuey Rhon Rhon a Chinese lantern. Bing means 'ice' in Mandarin Chinese.

Bing Dwen Dwen is a giant panda with a suit of ice, a heart of gold and a love of winter sports. "Bing" means ice and embodies purity and strength, the characteristics of the Winter Olympics. "Dwen Dwen", which means health, liveliness and cuteness, conforms to the overall image of pandas and symbolizes the strength, tenacity and inspiring Olympic spirit of Winter Olympic athletes. The colorful ring around Bing Dwen Dwen's face is inspired by the "ice ribbon" of the national speed skating hall of the Beijing Winter Olympics. The heart on Bing Dwen Dwen's palm is a warm welcome to friends all over the world.[9] Bing Dwen Dwen's full-body "shell", which helps the panda to skate, snowboard and ski alongside the Olympic athletes, is a tribute to embracing new technologies for a future with infinite possibilities, the bright colours of the halo around its face are a representation of the latest advanced technologies of the ice and snow sport tracks at the Games, while the heart on its left palm symbolises China's hospitality for athletes and spectators at the Winter Olympics.[10] Some netizens believe Bing Dwen Dwen's design may have also been inspired by the traditional Chinese winter treat tanghulu (糖葫芦) as the suit of ice resembles the clear candy coating.

Shuey Rhon Rhon is an anthropomorphic Chinese lantern. Lanterns represent harvest, celebration, warmth and light. The wishful shape at the top symbolizes auspicious happiness. The continuous pattern of the dove of peace and the Temple of Heaven symbolize the peaceful friendship and highlights the characteristics of the place where the events are held. The decorative pattern incorporates the traditional Chinese paper-cutting art. The snow on the face represents the meaning of "a fall of seasonable snow gives promise of a fruitful year" (瑞雪兆丰年). It also reflects the anthropomorphic design and highlights the mascot's cuteness.

Bing Dwen Dwen is the main Olympic mascot. Shuey Rhon Rhon is the Paralympic mascot.