1/8/2023

Breckenridge, Colorado
Gold mining put this Rocky Mountain town on the map in the 1860s, but today the real gold is the powdery snow that falls liberally on the slopes that surround the town. Breckenridge is one of Colorado's premier ski and snowboard destinations. The resort has 35 lifts servicing five peaks and 2,900 acres of terrain. The visitors—who also arrive in the summer to fish, cycle, and paddle—easily outnumber the 5,000 residents of this quaint village. The gold mines have long shut down, apart from hosting visits from tourists. The enduring value of Breckenridge is its natural beauty

This Colorado ski town is the largest in Summit County, Colo., and hosts Ullr Fest every January. Where are we?
ABreckenridge
BAspen
CBoulder

Breckenridge 47% got this right
Breckenridge is the most populous town and county seat of Summit County. Originally a mining town, Breckenridge is now primarily a destination for winter sports. Ullr Fest, named for a Norse god, celebrates all things winter.
This article is about the town of Breckenridge, Colorado. For the ski resort above the town, see Breckenridge Ski Resort.
Breckenridge, Colorado
Home rule municipality[1]
Town of Breckenridge[1]
Main Street in Breckenridge
Main Street in Breckenridge
Location of the Town of Breckenridge in Summit County, Colorado
Location of the Town of Breckenridge in Summit County, Colorado
Breckenridge is located in the United StatesBreckenridgeBreckenridge
Location of the Town of Breckenridge in the United States
Coordinates: 39°29′59″N 106°02′36″WCoordinates: 39°29′59″N 106°02′36″W[2]

The Town of Breckenridge is the home rule municipality that is the county seat and the most populous municipality of Summit County, Colorado, United States.[1][6] The town population was 5,078 at the 2020 United States Census.[4] Breckenridge is the principal town of the Breckenridge, CO Micropolitan Statistical Area. The town also has many part-time residents, as many people have vacation homes in the area. The town is located at the base of the Tenmile Range.

Since ski trails were first cut in 1961, Breckenridge Ski Resort has made the town a popular destination for skiers. Summer in Breckenridge attracts outdoor enthusiasts with hiking trails, wildflowers, fly-fishing in the Blue River, mountain biking, nearby Lake Dillon for boating, white water rafting, three alpine slides, a roller coaster, and many shops and restaurants up and down Main Street. The historic buildings along Main Street with their clapboard and log exteriors add to the charm of the town. Since 1981, Breckenridge hosts the Breckenridge Festival of Film in September.[7][8] In January each year since the 21st century there is a Backcountry Film Festival.[9] That is held at about the same time as the Ullr Fest, a week of celebrating snow and honoring the Norse god Ullr.[10] There are many summer activities, including an annual Fourth of July parade.