1/9/2023

Wind Cave National Park celebrates 120 years
Between the more famous national parks of Yellowstone and the Badlands lies Wind Cave National Park in South Dakota. Established 120 years ago, this national park is home to one of only four wild herds of genetically pure bison in North America. The two in our image are the descendants of 20 bison saved from slaughter by conservationists in the early 1900s. At the time, fewer than 1,000 wild bison were left alive out of a population that once numbered 50 million. Above ground, the park is the largest grass prairie in the country. Below ground lies one of the most extensive cave systems in the world. As the weather above changes, air flows into and out of the caves creating the wind for which the park was named

These bison are part of a herd that lives on the largest grass prairie in the US. What national park do they call home?
ABadlands
BWind Cave
CYellowstone

Wind Cave 48% got this right
Wind Cave National Park in South Dakota is famous both for its extensive, underground cave system and, above it, a vast prairie, which is home to one of only four free-roaming bison herds in North America.

Wind Cave National Park is an American national park located 10 miles (16 km) north of the town of Hot Springs in western South Dakota. Established on January 3, 1903[3] by President Theodore Roosevelt, it was the sixth national park in the U.S. and the first cave to be designated a national park anywhere in the world. The cave is notable for its calcite formations known as box work, as well as its frostwork.[5] Approximately 95 percent of the world's discovered box work formations are found in Wind Cave. The cave is recognized as the densest cave system in the world, with the greatest passage volume per cubic mile. Wind Cave is the seventh longest cave in the world with 154.2 miles (248.16 km) of explored cave passageways (as of 2021) and the third longest cave in the United States.[6] Above ground, the park includes the largest remaining natural mixed-grass prairie in the United States.

