1/11/2023

Umschreibung' by Olafur Eliasson in Munich
Making a New Year's resolution to boost your fitness? Let us present National Take the Stairs Day. (You're welcome.) The annual event began informally in 2016 and was later adopted by the American Lung Association. It's an ingenious way to nudge people to exercise—most of us encounter stairs during our day, so there's really no excuse. Climbing stairs is a low-impact activity that raises your heart rate and burns calories.

Of course, you may not have access to a cool, curly staircase like this beauty, which is actually a sculpture rather than a conduit. 'Umschreibung' is tucked away in an office building complex in Munich's Schwanthalerhöhe district. Creator Olafur Eliasson says he intended the sculpture—known locally as 'The Stairway to Heaven'—to convey 'movement without destination, a space defined by motion rather than walls.' Mission accomplished

This staircase is called 'Umschreibung,' but its nickname is 'The Stairway to Heaven.' When did Led Zeppelin release a song with that name?
A1965
B1969
C1971

1971 54% got this right
Did we just make you feel old? This anthem is lauded as one of the greatest rock songs of all time. Since it's Take the Stairs Day, we suggest putting it on repeat.

"Stairway to Heaven" is a song by English rock band Led Zeppelin, released in late 1971. It was composed by the band's guitarist Jimmy Page and lead singer Robert Plant for their untitled fourth studio album (often titled Led Zeppelin IV). The song is widely regarded as one of the greatest rock songs of all time.[4][5][6][7][8]

The song has three sections, each one progressively increasing in tempo and volume. The song begins in a slow tempo with acoustic instruments (guitar and recorders) before introducing electric instruments. The final section is an uptempo hard rock arrangement highlighted by Page's guitar solo (considered by many to be one of the greatest ever[9][additional citation(s) needed]) accompanying Plant's vocals that end with the plaintive a cappella line: "And she's buying a stairway to heaven."

"Stairway to Heaven" was voted number three in 2000 by VH1 on its list of the 100 Greatest Rock Songs,[10] in 2004 Rolling Stone magazine ranked "Stairway to Heaven" number 31 on its list of "500 Greatest Songs of All Time".[11] It was the most requested song on FM radio stations in the United States in the 1970s, despite never having been commercially released as a single in the US.[12] In November 2007, through download sales promoting Led Zeppelin's Mothership release, "Stairway to Heaven" reached number 37 on the UK Singles Chart.[13]