1/13/2023

Giant kelp in the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary
All along the Pacific Coast of North America, giant stands of kelp up to 100 feet high, like this one in California's Channel Islands, provide habitat for a vast number of fish, invertebrates, and sea mammals. Giant kelp, technically a type of brown algae, is the largest of all seaweed and one of the fastest-growing of any organism—as much as 2 feet per day! The gas-filled pods you see in this image help the kelp float. Like the trees in the Amazon, the kelp forests of our oceans are key to the health of marine

Giant kelp thrives off the Pacific Coast, including in this marine sanctuary in California. Where are we?
AMonterey Bay
BChannel Islands
CAlcatraz

Channel Islands 69% got this right
Together, Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary and Channel Islands National Park protect one of the richest marine environments in the world. Lush kelp forests like the one in our image provide habitat for vast numbers of fish, invertebrates, and sea mammals.

This article is about the islands in California. For the islands in the English Channel, see Channel Islands. For other uses, see Channel Island (disambiguation).
Channel Islands
Spanish: Archipiélago del Norte
Channelislandsca.jpg
Californian Channel Islands map en.png
Geography
Location	Pacific Ocean
Total islands	8
Area	350.89 sq mi (908.8 km2)
Highest elevation	2,429 ft (740.4 m)
Highest point	Devils Peak, Santa Cruz Island
Administration
United States
State	California
Counties	
Santa Barbara
Ventura
Los Angeles
Largest settlement	Avalon (pop. 3,728)
Demographics
Population	4,603 (2010)

Beach of Santa Cruz Island

Beach at San Miguel
The Channel Islands (Spanish: islas del Canal, Archipiélago del Norte) are an eight-island archipelago located within the Southern California Bight in the Pacific Ocean, off the coast of California. The four Northern Channel Islands are part of the Transverse Ranges geologic province, and the four Southern Channel Islands are part of the Peninsular Ranges province.[1] Five of the islands are within the Channel Islands National Park, and the waters surrounding these islands make up Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary. The Nature Conservancy was instrumental in establishing the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary. The islands were inhabited as early as 13,000 years ago, the earliest paleontological evidence of humans in North America. They are the easternmost islands in the Pacific Island group.

The Chumash and Tongva Native Americans who lived later on the islands may be the descendants of the original inhabitants, but they were then displaced by Spaniards who used the islands for fishing and agriculture. The U.S. military uses the islands as training grounds, weapons test sites, and as a strategic defensive location. The Channel Islands and the surrounding waters house a diverse ecosystem with many endemic species and subspecies. The islands harbor 150 unique species of plant.[2]