Martin Luther King Jr. Day
This striking memorial to Civil Rights icon Martin Luther King, Jr., displays 14 powerful quotes from his speeches and writings. The Inscription Wall, in Washington DC, lets the visitor browse the quotes without the structure of a timeline—the earliest quote dates to 1956 and the Montgomery Bus Boycott; the most recent is taken from Dr. King's sermon at the National Cathedral in Washington just four days before he was assassinated.

While the quotations float freely in time, there is a clear overarching theme. The National Park Service explains that the inscriptions 'stress four primary messages of Dr. King: justice, democracy, hope, and love.'

Perhaps surprisingly, there are no quotes from Dr. King's famous 'I Have a Dream' speech. That's not an oversight, though: The whole memorial has that legendary speech as its theme.

What year was Martin Luther King Day first observed as a federal holiday?
A1971
B1978
C1986

1986 49% got this right
The idea for a federal holiday honoring Dr. King's legacy came about soon after his assassination in 1968, but it wasn't signed into law until 1983 by President Ronald Reagan. Three more years passed before the holiday was officially observed.

Martin Luther King Jr. Day (officially Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr.,[1] and often referred to shorthand as MLK Day) is a federal holiday in the United States marking the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. It is observed on the third Monday of January each year. Born in 1929, King's actual birthday is January 15 (which in 1929 fell on a Tuesday). The holiday is similar to holidays set under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act. The earliest Monday for this holiday is January 15 and the latest is January 21.

King was the chief spokesperson for nonviolent activism in the Civil Rights Movement, which protested racial discrimination in federal and state law. The campaign for a federal holiday in King's honor began soon after his assassination in 1968. President Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, and it was first observed three years later on January 20, 1986. At first, some states resisted observing the holiday as such, giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays. It was officially observed in all 50 states for the first time in 2000.