1/21/2023

Kangaroo family for National Hugging Day
Whether you call it a hug or an embrace, there is something about the power of touch that all mammals can relate to. Take this mommy kangaroo and her joey for example—no words are needed to convey what is going on in this image. Not only does this cute pair give us the warm and fuzzies, it's also a perfect visual for National Hugging Day, which we are celebrating today. This warm-hearted occasion was created in 1986 by a man named Kevin Zaborney, who chose Jan 21 because it fell after the run of year-end holidays, landing right in the middle of winter when spirits tend to be low. That makes perfect sense to us! After all, hugging has been an essential part of the human experience for thousands of years. And studies have shown that it reduces stress, too. So find yourself a willing partner today and hug it out. You'll feel better, we promise.

Today we're celebrating a holiday created in 1986 to get us through the mid-winter blues. It's now known as...
ANational Cute Animals Day
BNational Hugging Day
CNational Baby Animals Day

National Hugging Day 53% got this right
While a cute picture of hugging animals can cheer anyone up, Jan 21 is also National Hugging Day. Created by Kevin Zaborney and first celebrated in Clio, Michigan, this event intentionally falls after the year-end holidays and before Valentine's Day.

National Hugging Day is an annual event dedicated to hugging. It was created by Kevin Zaborney[1][2] and occurs annually on January 21st. The day was first celebrated on January 21, 1986 in Clio, Michigan, USA.[3] The holiday is also observed in many other countries.[4][5] The idea of National Hug Day is to encourage everyone to hug family and friends more often.[1] Zaborney cautions to ask first if one is unsure of the response as respecting the personal space of others is always important and some people are not huggers.

History
Kevin Zaborney is credited with coming up with the idea of National Hugging Day in 1986. It was included in Chase's Calendar of Events; Zaborney's friend at the time was the granddaughter of the proprietors of the publication. He chose January 21st as it fell between the Christmas, New Year's Holidays, Valentine's Day, and birthdays when he found people are generally in low spirits.[1] Zaborney considered that "American society is embarrassed to show feelings in public" and hoped that a National Hugging Day would change that,[1] although he thought that his idea would fail.[2]

External links
Official website
References
 "Kevin Zaborney creates National Hug Day". People.com. Retrieved 13 April 2011.
 "National Hugging Day – One Pastor's Ingenious Idea". christianpost.com. Retrieved 27 April 2011.
 Zaborney, Kevin. "Official National Hug Day Website". nationalhuggingday.com. Retrieved 20 April 2011.
 Woods, Tyler. "Today Is National Hug Day Which Means Good Health". emaxhealth.com. Retrieved 20 April 2011.
 "What is National Hug Day?". ibtimes.com. 21 January 2011. Retrieved 27 April 2011.