1/22/2023

Mountain hare hopping into Lunar New Year
Today is the start of the Lunar New Year, which ushers in the Year of the Rabbit. Those born under the sign of the rabbit are believed to be ingenious, sweet, happy, quiet, and persistent. Famous rabbits include Albert Einstein, Frank Sinatra, Lionel Messi, and Ingrid Bergman. The Lunar New Year celebration starts with the first new moon in January and goes for the next 15 days, until the year's first full moon lights up the night sky. Historically it has been an occasion for feasting and honoring deities as well as ancestors. We're doing our part by sharing this lovely winter image of a mountain hare in Derbyshire, England.

For Lunar New Year we're in Derbyshire, England, of all places. What's that critter?
AEurasian rabbit
BMoon bunny
CMountain hare

Mountain hare 45% got this right
On the Chinese zodiac chart, the lunar year that more or less lines up with 2023 is the Year of the Rabbit. And we couldn't resist showing this mountain hare blending into the snow-covered hills of Derbyshire

Evolution
The mountain hare arose during the Late Pleistocene; there is evidence that its range expanded during glaciations into southern Europe, with populations of Iberian hare (Lepus granatensis), European hare (L. europaeus) and broom hare (L. castroviejoi) in northern Iberia harboring mitochondrial haplotypes from the mountain hare.[3] During the Late Pleistocene to Early Holocene, populations of mountain hare in Russia grew at least 10% larger than any living population today. This population has been classified as a distinct species Lepus tanaiticus, but is now generally considered a prehistoric morphotype of the living mountain hare.[4]

Distribution not
This species is distributed from Fennoscandia to eastern Siberia; in addition, isolated mountain populations occur in the Alps, Scotland, the Baltics, northeastern Poland, and Hokkaidō. In Ireland, the Irish hare (L. t. hibernicus) lives on lowland pastures, coastal grasslands, and salt marshes, not just in the mountains. The mountain hare has also been introduced to Iceland, Shetland, Orkney, the Isle of Man, the Peak District, Svalbard, Kerguelen Islands, Crozet Islands, and the Faroe Islands.[5][6][7] In the Alps, the mountain hare lives at elevations from 700 to 3800 m, depending on geographic region and season.[8]