1/25/2023

Burns Night
Today we're wishing a very happy birthday to the man regarded as Scotland's national poet and a pioneer of the Romantic movement, Robert Burns. Perhaps you can celebrate by visiting his statue at the Birks of Aberfeldy in Perth and Kinross, as seen in today's photo. The birch trees here ('birks' in the Scots language) and a local waterfall inspired him to write a song lyric, 'The Birks of Aberfeldy,' in 1787.

You might also take part in Burns Night, a worldwide celebration that involves a lavish, multicourse dinner, a recital of Burns' 'Address to a Haggis,' and a serving of that poem's titular dish. After much discussion and several poetry readings, the night traditionally ends with guests singing the New Year's standard, 'Auld Lang Syne,' with words written by Burns himself in 1788.

The statue in today's photo is of which famed poet?
ARobert Frost
BRobert Burns
CRobert Hayden

Robert Burns 77% got this right
Today, Scots will be celebrating the birth of Robert Burns, who was born on this date in 1759. He's regarded as a pioneer of the Romantic movement and was once voted 'The Greatest Scot' of all time. You might know him for the lyrics to 'Auld Lang Syne.'

Robert Burns (25 January 1759 – 21 July 1796), also known familiarly as Rabbie Burns,[a] was a Scottish poet and lyricist. He is widely regarded as the national poet of Scotland and is celebrated worldwide. He is the best known of the poets who have written in the Scots language, although much of his writing is in a "light Scots dialect" of English, accessible to an audience beyond Scotland. He also wrote in standard English, and in these writings his political or civil commentary is often at its bluntest.

He is regarded as a pioneer of the Romantic movement, and after his death he became a great source of inspiration to the founders of both liberalism and socialism, and a cultural icon in Scotland and among the Scottish diaspora around the world. Celebration of his life and work became almost a national charismatic cult during the 19th and 20th centuries, and his influence has long been strong on Scottish literature. In 2009 he was chosen as the greatest Scot by the Scottish public in a vote run by Scottish television channel STV.

As well as making original compositions, Burns also collected folk songs from across Scotland, often revising or adapting them. His poem (and song) "Auld Lang Syne" is often sung at Hogmanay (the last day of the year), and "Scots Wha Hae" served for a long time as an unofficial national anthem of the country. Other poems and songs of Burns that remain well known across the world today include "A Red, Red Rose", "A Man's a Man for A' That", "To a Louse", "To a Mouse", "The Battle of Sherramuir", "Tam o' Shanter" and "Ae Fond Kiss".