1/31/23

Burchell's zebras for International Zebra Day
It's International Zebra Day, and we're giving a shout-out to the flashiest animal on the African savanna. It's a day to raise awareness of these distinctive creatures and encourage measures to protect them and their habitat. This group of Burchell's zebras is hanging out at Rietvlei Nature Reserve in South Africa.

The most attention-grabbing feature of a zebra is, of course, those unique stripes. In recent years, researchers have found that the high-contrast patterns of zebra stripes seem to confuse horseflies as they approach, causing them to veer away or bounce off. Horseflies in Africa carry diseases that can be lethal to zebras, so the stripes do a lot more than just make them look fancy.

What kind of zebra are these?
ABurchell's zebra
BCape mountain zebra
CThere are different kinds?

Burchell's zebra 50% got this right
Burchell's zebras migrate farther than any other land animal on the African continent, traveling as far as 160 miles one way.

Like most plains zebras, females and males are about the same size, standing 1.1 to 1.4 metres (3 ft 7 in to 4 ft 7 in) at the shoulder. They weigh between 230 and 320 kilograms (500 and 700 lb).[3] Year-round reproduction observed in this subspecies in Etosha National Park, Namibia, concludes synchronization of a time budget between males and females, possibly explaining the lack of sexual dimorphism.[4]

Burchell's zebras are described as being striped on the head, the neck, and the flanks, and sparsely down the upper segments of the limbs then fading to white.[5] One or two shadow stripes rest between the bold, broad stripes on the haunch.[5] This main distinguishing characteristic sets the Burchell's zebra apart from the other subspecies. Gray (1824) observed a distinct dorsal line, the tail only bristly at the end, and the body distinctly white.[1] The dorsal line is narrow and becomes gradually broader toward the rear, distinctly margined with white on each side.[1]
