2/3/2023

Quebec City for Winter Carnival
Among all the pre-Lenten celebrations that take place around the world in February, the most famous are associated with warm-weather cities like Rio and New Orleans, where revelers party in elaborate costumes during the run-up to Ash Wednesday. It's a different affair in Quebec City, Canada, pictured here, where participants in the Quebec Winter Carnival enjoy all things winter, from snow sculptures to sleigh races. This former frontier outpost, and little sister to Montreal, is known for its spirited embrace of the coldest, darkest season. So, it's no surprise that its winter festival is the biggest in the Western Hemisphere. Our homepage image shows the grandiose Château Frontenac hotel, which opened in 1893, towering over the city's historic Old Quebec neighborhood, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

This castle-like structure is actually a grand hotel that opened in 1893. Where are we?
ABavaria, Germany
BLake Geneva, Switzerland
CQuebec City, Canada

Quebec City, Canada 58% got this right
The Fairmont Le Château Frontenac was built on a promontory in what is now the historic district of Old Quebec. This month, Quebec City hosts its annual winter carnival, the biggest winter festival in the Western Hemisphere.

Quebec City (/kwɪˈbɛk/ (listen) or /kəˈbɛk/;[12] French: Ville de Québec), officially Québec ([kebɛk] (listen)),[13] is the capital city of the Canadian province of Quebec. As of July 2021, the city had a population of 549,459,[14] and the metropolitan area had a population of 839,311.[15] It is the eleventh-largest city and the seventh-largest metropolitan area in Canada. It is also the second-largest city in the province after Montreal. It has a humid continental climate with warm summers coupled with cold and snowy winters.

The Algonquian people had originally named the area Kébec, an Algonquin[note 1] word meaning "where the river narrows", because the Saint Lawrence River narrows proximate to the promontory of Quebec and its Cape Diamant. Explorer Samuel de Champlain founded a French settlement here in 1608, and adopted the Algonquin name. Quebec City is one of the oldest European settlements in North America. The ramparts surrounding Old Quebec (Vieux-Québec) are the only fortified city walls remaining in the Americas north of Mexico. This area was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1985 as the "Historic District of Old Québec".[16][17]

The city's landmarks include the Château Frontenac hotel that dominates the skyline and the Citadelle of Quebec, an intact fortress that forms the centrepiece of the ramparts surrounding the old city and includes a secondary royal residence. The National Assembly of Quebec (provincial legislature), the Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec (National Museum of Fine Arts of Quebec), and the Musée de la civilisation (Museum of Civilization) are found within or near Vieux-Québec.

