2/5/2023

Monarch butterflies, Pismo Beach, California
Today we're in Pismo Beach, California, to celebrate one of the best-known species of butterflies—the monarch. Western Monarch Day marks their seasonal migration to California's Central Coast from cold northern locations west of the Rocky Mountains.

A grove of eucalyptus trees at Pismo State Beach creates an optimal microclimate for the butterflies. Thousands arrive in the fall and roost through the winter until March, when they begin to fly north. After traveling a relatively short distance inland, the monarchs stop to mate and lay eggs on milkweed plants. The eggs will hatch after just a few days, eventually transforming into the next generation of adult butterflies to continue the trek. The annual cycle takes four or five generations of monarchs to complete, so the butterflies are following in the path most recently traveled by their great-grandparents (or so).

In recent years, Western monarch butterfly populations have suffered significant declines, due to climate change and loss of overwintering habitats. We can help protect and restore monarch butterflies by planting native milkweed (their primary food source) and other pollinator-friendly plants in our gardens and yards.

We're at Pismo Beach today, celebrating...
AInsect Migration Month
BButterfly Appreciation Week
CWestern Monarch Day

	
Western Monarch Day 46% got this right
Western Monarch Day, observed on February 5, celebrates the return of monarch butterflies to the Central Coast of California, where they spend their winters. The monarchs migrate from cold northern locations west of the Rocky Mountains.

The monarch butterfly or simply monarch (Danaus plexippus) is a milkweed butterfly (subfamily Danainae) in the family Nymphalidae.[5] Other common names, depending on region, include milkweed, common tiger, wanderer, and black-veined brown.[6] It is amongst the most familiar of North American butterflies and an iconic pollinator,[7] although it is not an especially effective pollinator of milkweeds.[8][9] Its wings feature an easily recognizable black, orange, and white pattern, with a wingspan of 8.9–10.2 cm (3.5–4.0 in).[10] A Müllerian mimic, the viceroy butterfly, is similar in color and pattern, but is markedly smaller and has an extra black stripe across each hindwing.

The eastern North American monarch population is notable for its annual southward late-summer/autumn instinctive migration from the northern and central United States and southern Canada to Florida and Mexico.[5] During the fall migration, monarchs cover thousands of miles, with a corresponding multigenerational return north in spring. The western North American population of monarchs west of the Rocky Mountains often migrates to sites in southern California, but individuals have been found in overwintering Mexican sites, as well.[11][12] In 2009, monarchs were reared on the International Space Station, successfully emerging from pupae located in the station's Commercial Generic Bioprocessing Apparatus.[13]

