2/7/2023

Village of Labro, Italy
Join us for a journey to a tiny Italian village about 40 miles northeast of Rome. Labro, which covers about 4.4 square miles, was founded sometime between the 9th and 10th centuries and was assigned to a powerful aristocratic family by Emperor Otto the Great. Perched atop a wooded hill, the Nobili-Vitelleschi castle originally served to secure the border and control communication routes in the valley below.

With its panoramic views and historic buildings, Labro is now a popular tourist destination, having been restored for the purpose shortly after World War II, when its existence was threatened by a mass exodus of the population.

This is Labro, a tiny mountain village in which country?
AItaly
BPortugal
CPeru

Italy 50% got this right
In the year 956 CE, Emperor Otto the Great assigned Labro to the Nobili family, who lived there for centuries. Eventually, the Nobili family merged with the Vitelleschi family and vanished from history, but their shared castle remains a prime tourist destination to this day. After WWII, a mass exodus of the population prompted the Nobili-Vitelleschi heirs to restore every building in Labro to encourage visitors.

Labro is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Rieti in the Italian region Latium, located about 70 kilometres (43 mi) northeast of Rome and about 15 kilometres (9 mi) northwest of Rieti. It is a touristic destination and has been awarded with the orange flag.

As of 31 December 2004, it had a population of 374 and an area of 11.4 square kilometres (4.4 sq mi).[3] Labro borders the following municipalities: Arrone, Colli sul Velino, Morro Reatino, Terni.

History

A tower of Labro's Nobili-Vitelleschi castle
Labro was founded between the 9th and 10th century; the first lord of Labro was sworn by Otto I in the year 956.[4] During the middle ages, Labro was a possession of the city of Rieti and served as a stronghold to secure the border with the city of Spoleto. For this reason, Labro was involved in a number of battles, in particular with the bordering castle of Luco which was controlled by Spoleto.[5]

After the Second World War, Labro suffered a strong depopulation, which endangered the very survival of the town. To fight the phenomenon and encourage tourism, starting from 1968, the heirs of the Nobili family decided to fully restore all the buildings in the village; the task was carried on by Flemish architect Ivan Van Mossevelde.[6]