2/8/2023

Uredd Rest Area, Norway
With sweeping views of fjords, mountains, and the sea, this is possibly one of the most beautiful places in the world to rest when you are on the road. Ureddplassen, also known as Uredd Rest Area, provides a place for respite to travelers on a section of the Helgelandskysten national scenic route in Norway. It also serves as a WWII memorial, sharing its name with a Norwegian submarine which was lost when it hit a German mine in February 1943.

With its minimalist architecture and breath-taking scenery, Ureddplassen offers a visual experience like no other. It has marble benches and steps leading out to the open sea, and a wave-shaped public restroom with frosted glass that lights up beautifully in the dark.

Since its unveiling, the rest area has quickly become a popular tourist destination. Here, visitors and locals can witness the midnight sun in summer and feast their eyes on the northern lights in winter.

We're at one of the most scenic rest stops in the world. Where is it?
AIceland
BNorway
CCanada

Norway 68% got this right
Located on a Norwegian scenic route along the Helgeland coast, the Uredd Rest Area, with its modern, minimalist design, has rightfully earned the distinction of being one of the world's most beautiful public restrooms.

Norway, officially the Kingdom of Norway,[a] is a Nordic country in Northern Europe, the mainland territory of which comprises the western and northernmost portion of the Scandinavian Peninsula. The remote Arctic island of Jan Mayen and the archipelago of Svalbard also form part of Norway.[note 5] Bouvet Island, located in the Subantarctic, is a dependency of Norway; it also lays claims to the Antarctic territories of Peter I Island and Queen Maud Land. The capital and largest city in Norway is Oslo.

Norway has a total area of 385,207 square kilometres (148,729 sq mi)[12] and had a population of 5,425,270 in January 2022.[14] The country shares a long eastern border with Sweden at a length of 1,619 km (1,006 mi). It is bordered by Finland and Russia to the northeast and the Skagerrak strait to the south, on the other side of which are Denmark and the United Kingdom. Norway has an extensive coastline, facing the North Atlantic Ocean and the Barents Sea. The maritime influence dominates Norway's climate, with mild lowland temperatures on the sea coasts; the interior, while colder, is also significantly milder than areas elsewhere in the world on such northerly latitudes. Even during polar night in the north, temperatures above freezing are commonplace on the coastline. The maritime influence brings high rainfall and snowfall to some areas of the country.

Harald V of the House of Glücksburg is the current King of Norway. Jonas Gahr Støre has been prime minister since 2021, replacing Erna Solberg. As a unitary sovereign state with a constitutional monarchy, Norway divides state power between the parliament, the cabinet and the supreme court, as determined by the 1814 constitution. The kingdom was established in 872 as a merger of many petty kingdoms and has existed continuously for 1,151 years. From 1537 to 1814, Norway was a part of the Kingdom of Denmark–Norway, and, from 1814 to 1905, it was in a personal union with the Kingdom of Sweden. Norway was neutral during the First World War, and also in World War II until April 1940 when the country was invaded and occupied by Nazi Germany until the end of the war.

Norway has both administrative and political subdivisions on two levels: counties and municipalities. The Sámi people have a certain amount of self-determination and influence over traditional territories through the Sámi Parliament and the Finnmark Act. Norway maintains close ties with both the European Union and the United States. Norway is also a founding member of the United Nations, NATO, the European Free Trade Association, the Council of Europe, the Antarctic Treaty, and the Nordic Council; a member of the European Economic Area, the WTO, and the OECD; and a part of the Schengen Area. In addition, the Norwegian languages share mutual intelligibility with Danish and Swedish.

Norway maintains the Nordic welfare model with universal health care and a comprehensive social security system, and its values are rooted in egalitarian ideals.[21] The Norwegian state has large ownership positions in key industrial sectors, having extensive reserves of petroleum, natural gas, minerals, lumber, seafood, and fresh water. The petroleum industry accounts for around a quarter of the country's gross domestic product (GDP).[22] On a per-capita basis, Norway is the world's largest producer of oil and natural gas outside of the Middle East.[23][24]

The country has the fourth-highest per-capita income in the world on the World Bank and IMF lists.[25] On the CIA's GDP (PPP) per capita list (2015 estimate) which includes autonomous territories and regions, Norway ranks as number eleven.[26] It has the world's largest sovereign wealth fund, with a value of US$1 trillion.[27] Norway has the second highest Human Development Index ranking in the world, previously holding the top position between 2001 and 2006, and between 2009 and 2019;[28] it also has the second highest inequality-adjusted ranking per 2021.[29] Norway ranked first on the World Happiness Report for 2017[30] and currently ranks first on the OECD Better Life Index, the Index of Public Integrity, the Freedom Index,[31] and the Democracy Index.[32] Norway also has one of the lowest crime rates in the world.[33]

Although the majority of Norway's population is ethnic Norwegian, in the 21st century immigration has accounted for more than half of population growth; in 2021, the five largest minority groups in the country were the descendants of Polish, Lithuanian, Somali, Pakistani, and Swedish immigrants.[7]

