2/9/2023

Lower Antelope Canyon, Arizona
Today we're peering up from the depths of Lower Antelope Canyon, located in Lake Powell Navajo Tribal Park near Page, Arizona. This tall, narrow channel is an entry point into Antelope Canyon, a slot canyon that was created over millions of years by flash floods carving away at the soft Navajo sandstone.

The Navajo name for Lower Antelope Canyon is Hazdistazí (spiral rock arches), but hikers have nicknamed it the Corkscrew for its twists and turns. Visitors shimmy through tight passages and climb up and down ladders to reach the bottom of the chamber. There they find themselves in an almost otherworldly environment, where sunbeams break through to the canyon floor, making the stone walls glow.

Tour guides, managed by the Navajo Nation, are mandatory for visitors to the canyon.

We're peering up from the depths of Lower Antelope Canyon, which is in…
ACalifornia
BArizona
CTexas
Arizona 93% got this right
Lower Antelope Canyon is in Lake Powell Navajo Tribal Park near Page, Arizona. It's nicknamed the Corkscrew for its twists and turns—visitors shimmy through tight passages and go up and down ladders to reach the canyon floor.

Arizona (/ˌærɪˈzoʊnə/ (listen) ARR-ih-ZOH-nə; Navajo: Hoozdo Hahoodzo [hoː˥z̥to˩ ha˩hoː˩tso˩];[10] O'odham: Alĭ ṣonak [ˈaɭi̥ ˈʂɔnak])[11] is a state in the Southwestern United States. It is the 6th-largest and the 14th-most-populous of the 50 states. Its capital and largest city is Phoenix. Arizona is part of the Four Corners region with Utah to the north, Colorado to the northeast, and New Mexico to the east; its other neighboring states are Nevada to the northwest, California to the west and the Mexican states of Sonora and Baja California to the south and southwest.

Arizona is the 48th state and last of the contiguous states to be admitted to the Union, achieving statehood on February 14, 1912. Historically part of the territory of Alta California in New Spain, it became part of independent Mexico in 1821. After being defeated in the Mexican–American War, Mexico ceded much of this territory to the United States in 1848. The southernmost portion of the state was acquired in 1853 through the Gadsden Purchase.

Southern Arizona is known for its desert climate, with very hot summers and mild winters. Northern Arizona features forests of pine, Douglas fir, and spruce trees; the Colorado Plateau; mountain ranges (such as the San Francisco Mountains); as well as large, deep canyons, with much more moderate summer temperatures and significant winter snowfalls. There are ski resorts in the areas of Flagstaff, Alpine, and Tucson. In addition to the internationally known Grand Canyon National Park, which is one of the world's seven natural wonders, there are several national forests, national parks, and national monuments.
