2/11/2023

Milky Way over Zabriskie Point, California
This iconic view of the Milky Way from Zabriskie Point in California will draw crowds of photographers and tourists this weekend, as the Death Valley Dark Sky Festival begins. Death Valley National Park offers some of the best stargazing in the US and has been awarded the highest ‘gold tier’ rating by the International Dark-Sky Association.

The geology here is another star attraction. Zabriskie Point's terrain has played a role in movies from 'Spartacus' to 'Stars Wars' and the scenic overlook is featured on the cover of rock band U2's album 'The Joshua Tree.' Weather and water carved out these badlands over eons, resulting in colorful striped rock formations while the darker material on several peaks was formed by lava from an ancient volcanic eruption. All are best enjoyed under a stunning celestial lightshow afforded by some of the darkest night skies in the country.

We're at Zabriskie Point in Death Valley National Park. Which state are we in?
ACalifornia
BArizona
CUtah

California 56% got this right
Zabriskie Point is in the Amargosa Range, which runs along the eastern side of California's Death Valley. It offers sweeping panoramic views of a variety of colorful rock formations.

Millions of years prior to the actual sinking and widening of Death Valley and the existence of Lake Manly (see Geology of the Death Valley area), another lake covered a large portion of Death Valley including the area around Zabriskie Point. This ancient lake began forming approximately nine million years ago. During several million years of the lake's existence, sediments were collecting at the bottom in the form of saline muds, gravels from nearby mountains, and ashfalls from the then-active Black Mountain volcanic field. These sediments combined to form what we today call the Furnace Creek Formation. The climate along Furnace Creek Lake was dry, but not nearly as dry as in the present. Camels, mastodons, horses, carnivores, and birds left tracks in the lakeshore muds, along with fossilized grass and reeds. Borates, which made up a large portion of Death Valley's historical past were concentrated in the lakebeds from hot spring waters and alteration of rhyolite in the nearby volcanic field. Weathering and alteration by thermal waters are also responsible for the variety of colors represented there.


Close-up of Red Cathedral, to the right of Manly Beacon
Regional mountains building to the west influenced the climate to become more and more arid, causing the lake to dry up, and creating a dry lake. Subsequent widening and sinking of Death Valley and the additional uplift of today's Black Mountains tilted the area. This provided the necessary relief to accomplish the erosion that produced the badlands we see today. The dark-colored material capping the badland ridges (to the left in the panoramic photograph) is lava from eruptions that occurred three to five million years ago. This hard lava cap has retarded erosion in many places and possibly explains why Manly Beacon, the high outcrop to the right, is much higher than other portion of the badlands. Manly Beacon was named in honor of William L. Manly, who along with John Rogers, guided members of the ill-fated Forty-niners out of Death Valley during the gold rush of 1849.


View of Manly Beacon from Zabriskie Point, showing convolutions, texture, and color contrasts in the eroded rock
The primary source of borate minerals gathered from Death Valley's playas is Furnace Creek Formation.[1] The Formation is made up of over 5000 feet (1500 m) of mudstone, siltstone, and conglomerate. The borates were concentrated in these lakebeds from hot spring waters and altered rhyolite from nearby volcanic fields.