2/14/2023

Valentine's Day
Valentine's Day is here! A day to celebrate love and tell your significant other how much they mean to you, Valentine's Day is perhaps one of the most popular holidays around the world. Although its exact origins are not known, it is associated with the ancient Roman festival of Lupercalia and the Christian feast day of Saint Valentine. But today, Valentine's Day has evolved into a huge cultural and commercial celebration of romantic love.

For the lovebirds out there, you can always keep it simple with a dinner date or some red roses. But, for a really grand gesture, you could whisk your soulmate away to Japan's Otaru Snow Light Path Festival, pictured on our homepage, where the warm glow of romance will help keep those icy temperatures at bay. Happy Valentine's Day!

What is the most popular flower to give on Valentine's Day?
AYellow tulips
BWhite lilies
CRed roses

Red roses 77% got this right
Roses symbolize love and romance, especially red ones. In 2022, roses represented 83% of all Valentine's Day floral sales, according to the Society of American Florists. Of the roses sold for Valentine's Day, 65% were red.

A rose is either a woody perennial flowering plant of the genus Rosa (/ˈroʊzə/),[1] in the family Rosaceae (/roʊˈzeɪsiːˌiː/),[1] or the flower it bears. There are over three hundred species and tens of thousands of cultivars.[citation needed] They form a group of plants that can be erect shrubs, climbing, or trailing, with stems that are often armed with sharp prickles.[citation needed] Their flowers vary in size and shape and are usually large and showy, in colours ranging from white through yellows and reds. Most species are native to Asia, with smaller numbers native to Europe, North America, and northwestern Africa.[citation needed] Species, cultivars and hybrids are all widely grown for their beauty and often are fragrant. Roses have acquired cultural significance in many societies. Rose plants range in size from compact, miniature roses, to climbers that can reach seven meters in height.[citation needed] Different species hybridize easily, and this has been used in the development of the wide range of garden roses.