2/15/2023

Hippo family in Chobe National Park, Botswana
It's World Hippo Day, time to celebrate one of Earth's heaviest land animals! These African herbivores are scattered across the continent south of the Sahara Desert but, despite their wide range, hippos are listed as a vulnerable species due to habitat loss. While they spend their lives in and around water, hippos aren't good swimmers and can't float. They move about in deep water by bouncing off the bottom. Hippos can live up to 40 years in the wild and possess the largest mouth of any land animal in the world, so smiling for the camera comes naturally.

Hippos are found on what continent?
AAustralia
BAsia
CAfrica

Africa 83% got this right
Hippopotamuses are native to sub-Saharan Africa.

Hippos aren't the world's largest land mammals—that honor belongs, by a hair, to the largest breeds of elephants and rhinoceroses—but they come pretty close. The biggest male hippos can approach three tons and 17 feet, and apparently, never stop growing throughout their 50-year life span. The females are a few hundred pounds lighter, but every bit as menacing, especially when defending their young.

Hippopotamuses have very little body hair—a trait that puts them in the company of humans, whales, and a handful of other mammals. Hippos have hair only around their mouths and on the tips of their tails. To make up for this deficit, hippos do have extremely thick skin, consisting of about two inches of the epidermis and only a thin layer of underlying fat—there's not much need to conserve heat in the wilds of equatorial Africa.

Hippos do, however, have very delicate skin that needs to be protected from the harsh sun. The hippo produces its own natural sunscreen—a substance called "blood sweat" or "red sweat," it consists of red and orange acids that absorb ultraviolet light and inhibit the growth of bacteria. This has led to the widespread myth that hippos sweat blood; in fact, these mammals don't possess any sweat glands at all, which would be superfluous considering their semi-aquatic lifestyle.

Many animals, including humans, are sexually dimorphic—the males tend to be larger than the females (or vice-versa), and there are other ways, besides directly examining the genitals, to distinguish between the two sexes. A male hippo, though, looks pretty much exactly like a female hippo, except that males are 10 percent heavier than females. The inability to easily tell whether a particular animal is male or female makes it difficult for researchers in the field to investigate the social life of a lounging herd of hippos.