2/19/2023

Humpback whales in Maui, Hawaii
If you ever want to feel insignificant, just think about the sheer size of a humpback whale. With adults growing up to 56 feet long, humpback whales are one of the biggest mammals on Earth. In February, Hawaii celebrates the return of these migrating giants with its Maui Whale Festival. This month-long event encourages people to get involved in conservation efforts and includes whale-watching tours, allowing closer views of these beautiful creatures.

A species of baleen whale, humpback whales are known for their haunting, elaborate songs, which travel vast distances through the ocean. It is only the males that sing and each whale population has its own song. Although the exact purpose is still a mystery, it is thought the songs might allow them to communicate with other whales over vast distances and help navigate new areas. These great leviathans of the deep also share a common ancestor with one of the world's biggest land mammals—they are distant relatives of the hippopotamus.

Which type of whale is known for its haunting and complex songs?
ABeluga whale
BOrca
CHumpback whale

Humpback whale 56% got this right
Found in every ocean, the humpback whale is a species of baleen whale, with long pectoral fins and a small, stubby dorsal fin.

The humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae) is a species of baleen whale. It is a rorqual (a member of the family Balaenopteridae) and is the only species in the genus Megaptera. Adults range in length from 14–17 m (46–56 ft) and weigh up to 40 metric tons (44 short tons). The humpback has a distinctive body shape, with long pectoral fins and tubercles on its head. It is known for breaching and other distinctive surface behaviors, making it popular with whale watchers. Males produce a complex song typically lasting 4 to 33 minutes.

Found in oceans and seas around the world, humpback whales typically migrate up to 16,000 km (9,900 mi) each year. They feed in polar waters and migrate to tropical or subtropical waters to breed and give birth. Their diet consists mostly of krill and small fish, and they use bubbles to catch prey. They are promiscuous breeders, with both sexes having multiple partners. Orcas are the main natural predators of humpback whales.

Like other large whales, the humpback was a target for the whaling industry. Humans once hunted the species to the brink of extinction; its population fell to around 5,000 by the 1960s. Numbers have partially recovered to some 135,000 animals worldwide, while entanglement in fishing gear, collisions with ships, and noise pollution continue